=head1 NAME

Authen::SignedRequest - Generation and verification of signed_request

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Authen::SignedRequest;
  
  my $data = {key => $value, ...};
  my $signed = Authen::SignedRequest->get_signed_request
      ({key => $value, ...}, $secret);
  
  my $data = Authen::SignedRequest->verify_request
      ($signed, $secret); # or undef if bad signature

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Authen::SignedRequest> module provides two functions to generate
or verify signature in the C<signed_request> format.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item $signed = Authen::SignedRequest->get_signed_request($data, $secret)

Generate a C<signed_request> for the given data.

The first argument must be the signed data, as a hash reference.  The
method would modify the hash reference, if required, to append
additional information such as hash algorithm.  Since the
C<signed_request> use JSON serialization, the data must be
serializable.  The method use L<JSON::XS> as the serializer.

The second argument must be the secret key for the signature.  It must
be a byte string.

The method return the C<signed_request>.  It is signed by the
HMAC-SHA256 algorithm (as stated by the C<algorithm> value in the
signed JSON data) with the current timestamp (in the C<issued_at>
value in the signed JSON data).

=item $data = Authen::SignedRequest->verify_request($signed, $secret)

Verify a C<signed_request> and return the extracted data.

The first argument must be the C<signed_request> byte string.

The second argument must be the secret key for the signature.  It must
be a byte string.

If the C<signed_request> is a JSON data with a valid signature and is
not timeouted yet, the JSON data, deserialized into Perl values, is
returned by the method.  Otherwise, i.e. the data is not correctly
signed, the hash algorithm in use is unknown, the JSON data is broken,
the signed data is timeouted, or otherwise broken, C<undef> is
returned.

The package variable C<$Authen::SignedRequest::SignatureTimeout>
represents the seconds of the timeout.  It is 180 seconds by default.
If the C<signed_request> has no timestamp (C<issued_at>), the signed
data is treated as timeouted.  You can disable timeout verification by
setting a false value to the variable.
 
The package variable C<$Authen::SignedRequest::Warn> controls whether
reason of signature verification errors should be warned or not,
defaulted false.

=head1 DEPENDENCY

=over 4

=item L<Digest::SHA>.

=item L<MIME::Base64::URLSafe>.

=item L<JSON::Functions::XS>, which depends on L<JSON::XS>.

Available from <https://github.com/wakaba/perl-json-functions-xs/>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

Signed Request
<https://developers.facebook.com/docs/authentication/signed_request/>.

=head1 DISTRIBUTION

Latest version of this module is available from
<https://github.com/wakaba/perl-authen-signedrequest/>.

=head1 HISTORY

=over 4

=item 2012-02-15

New module.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakabatan@hatena.ne.jp>.

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

This module is a product of Hatena platform development group.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2012 Hatena <http://www.hatena.com/>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=back